Hi friends
Welcome to Burrito Bay Methodist Church's podcast on the Gospel of Matthew.
Today is Friday
February the 20th. My name is Scott. How are you doing? My name is Dudley. Thanks for joining us.
We're reading Matthew chapter 17.
This chapter takes place after Jesus
it shows this has happened that he is the Messiah Peter makes that great confession you are the Messiah the son of the living God
But then Jesus
Begins defining how he will be the Messiah. He's going to be one who suffers.
And,
If you remember from the other days reading, Peter rebukes Jesus. And so Jesus has to rebuke Peter again.
And affirm that
To fulfill God's will, he's got to be the Messiah who suffers and dies. And he says that if you follow me, you have to enter that life of suffering and self-giving also. And then, don't we?
Dudley, we have this wonderful story in today's reading of the Transfiguration. Jesus is on the mountain and...
And with Peter, James, and John, and Peter...
he's transformed before them that he he becomes dazzling
White and bright and light and.
Moses and Elijah appear with him maybe it's the Old Testament
the prophets and the Old Testament law
maybe it's both Moses and Elijah had been on top of the mountain and seen the glory of God
But here, Jesus is transformed. And.
It, it, it, it
Chosen tells Peter, James and John that Jesus is the Son of God. the Father speaks, this is my.
beloved son with whom I'm well pleased, listen to him. So Jesus is speaking with authority when he says that he is the Messiah who has to suffer and die.
This is a validation of rubber stamp on Jesus' message.
and so they they come down from the mountain after jesus is transfigured and jesus says don't talk about this until after the resurrection because we can't understand his heart.
and his glory apart from the cross. Right.
then we have a story of jesus healing a boy that the disciples of the disciples couldn't heal and then we have another prediction of his coming suffering and death.
And then we have the story of God providing. Basically, God provides for the temple tax for Jesus and Peter through Jesus as gold.
And Peter finds a fish with a shekel in it to pay that.
But, Dudley, what strikes me and what I wanted to ask you is that
This is a validation that in the midst of his
Hmm.
The fighting in his Messiahship is one of suffering and dying. In the midst of this conversation, we have the story of Jesus being transfigured.
and he tells Peter James, "Now not to talk about this until after the resurrection." And I interpret that as we can't understand God's glory.
I'm parked from the cross. Well, what do you think of that? Yeah, no, you're right. I had a mentor that one time said, hey,
No cross
No crown.
And, and, and, and,
I think that our world is so broken that we experience
Pain.
Yeah. Because it's just a... It's a...
There's beauty here, but it's a terrible place in many ways.
And it's going to, when you're living right and following Jesus and
But with his help, we can't live right on our own. But when you are following that,
This world
It feels so broken and he's going in. And the transfiguration, as you're saying this, kind of reminds me of a preview. You know, it used to be you go to the movies and you want to
And you want to see the previews. It was coming. You went and see what's coming soon. You know, there's the poster that says coming soon or coming to a theater near you. Yeah. And I...
And I think that not only is Jesus showing his glory, but Jesus
He's tellin' em all along, dude.
I even go to maybe John 14 where it says, where I'm going, you can come. Yeah.
Two and.
Maybe it's an encouragement. He knows that when he's gone, there might be dark days. The spirit's going to be sent and that will sustain them, but they also will have this memory.
memory.
of the Transfiguration. You know, that song by Fanny Crosby, Blessed Assurance, a whole lot of foretaste of glory divine. - Yeah.
And so in a way, this is a foretaste of the resurrection. This is the glorified, transformed Jesus.
Mm-hmm.
He promises that we will have glorified transformed bodies at one time also. So they get the glimpse of what's coming. They get a glimpse of who Jesus truly is.
It truly is. It truly is.
But then, in a way, Jesus
Hide it again because you can't
It's not that glory apart from the cross. Yes. And so in John's gospel,
When Jesus is glorified is when he's hung up on the cross. Yeah. It's that...
Full and complete expression of God's love.
that through his atoning death we are reconciled to God and made new.
And that's how he chooses to reveal his glory to the world. And I think that's that's really.
Powerful. I think this, too. when you said probably the the law.
by Moses and the prophets were represented up there. And then Jesus is the one that goes. So it's almost like he completes all of that. And because he's the full-fledged
The fulfillment of the law of prophets. Yes. And he...
Maybe is making a visual statement
yeah, but.
You know here you have these guys
and they did great things and ah foundational things and then jesus comes and goes on the fulfillment. yeah they did great things foundational things but really.
But really, they were pointing out.
to the coming of Christ. They were pointing to Jesus. And here is the fulfillment. - Yeah, and it says that he's the one transfigured. He's the one that shines brightly. - You don't hear anything else about them?
And they were thankful for them, but they were gone. Jesus is the one that stands forever. He just remains.
Their disciples are overwhelmed by fear because of this.
Awesome. Event, they look up because Jesus came to them and touched them, and when they raised their eyes, it was known they were with Jesus. Wow.
Wow.
And,
yeah and then you know that path there's.
The...
The continual... The continual...
Foretelling of his coming, suffering and death,
and then the...
Just the hardships that people have, there's a boy who's demon-possessed and suffering.
and Jesus heals him
And it's
You know, we get the...
A poor taste of glory divine here, but the reality of that we still live in a world full of pain, and that's kind of affirmed in this chapter. But again, God provides in the midst of it. Yeah.
Yeah. And God provided. Well, I think so. In this story. Yeah.
Jesus kind of gets on to a little bit. I think that his expectation is that as we follow him by the power of the Spirit that we
Because he was a little frustrated. He said, how long am I going to be with you? His expectation is for us to minister to one another. Right.
and to help him. We've got to start growing up. Yeah, we've got to start taking responsibility. At least by the mustard seed. Have a faith in the size of the mustard seed. And I'm like, Lord, give us that.
Give us that faith and to love one another, to help one another in our series, in humility and in serving and loving and helping one another.
You know, Jesus said that if you had faith inside of a mustard seed, you could move mountains. That's not much faith. It's pretty small. And so, you know, even if we just have a little faith,
A little faith God can work with it. We've got to use it the best way. We've got to use it like a step and do something different.
that
Through the power of the Spirit, you know that God's, you know that we don't have to pray about helping someone sometimes. I mean, you can't do everything, but we can all do something. Amen, you know?
No.
So, Dovey, I know the question is, you know, is this a passage we should read on April the 15th, Tax Day, about, oh, yeah, a fish. Isn't it funny that he tells a fisher?
A fisherman to do what a fisherman does. Yes, yes. You've got somebody that wants to go fishing, that loves to go fishing, and they say, hey, that's...
Does does your master pay the tax? Yeah, and Peter, before you and ask him, Jesus goes, Oh yes, he does, but he hasn't even gone to him yet, but he's just I know he does. he has.
He has to. So, yeah. And he walks in. Yeah.
And Jesus begins talking immediately about taxes. He says, I had a word of knowledge. He knew what would happen, but he starts talking about taxes. That's right. So he says, hey, go, go.
Go catch a fish, take the coin out of his mouth, and
And pay our taxes. God provides. Wow. Yeah.
Thank you, friends, for listening today, and we pray and hope and pray.
Wish you all a happy weekend.
Thank you very much.